Website Planning

Subject: Computer parts and components

Questions:

Q: What is the brain of the computer?
A: CPU/Processor/Central Processing Unit

Q: An RTX 3090 is a graphics card by what company?
A: Nvidia

Q: What does the abraviation RAM mean?
A: Random Access Memory

Q: What does the abreviation GPU mean?
A: Graphics Processing Unit

Central Processing Unit / Processor / CPU: The pocessor is what controls everything that happens
in the computer. A better processor will run faster and load tasks faster. Faster processors also
use more power and produce more heat.

Graphics Processing Unit / Graphics Card / GPU: The graphics card is in charge of displaying
everything you see onto your monitor. High quality graphics cards are most commonly used for
gaming and video rendering. Graphics cards, similarly to processors use a lot of power and
produce a lot of heat.

Motherboard: The motherboard is the body of a PC. It connects all of the parts together and
allows them to communicate. It also distributes power to all of the compenents when they need it.
A good motherboard will have high power delivery and allow for more voltage to be sent to the CPU
and GPU.

Random Access Memory / RAM: Ram is short ter storage for tasks that are currently being performed.
This involves things such as google, games and servers. Faster RAM allows information to be
transfered faster. The recomended amount for a computer is 16 gigabytes but the maximum availible
currently is 2 terabytes.

Power Supply Unit / Power Supply / PSU: The power supply is what gets plugged into the wall. It
distributes power to the motherbord so all of the components recieve the power they need to perform
how they want to. Better power supplies collect more watts and transfers the AC and DC power more
efficiently.

Storage: SSD / Solid State Drive and Hard Drives: SSDs and hard drives are both components that store  the computers files and any files you download. SSDs are much faster than hard drives. Most modern computers now use SSDs called M.2 NVMe SSDs. They are fast and compact storage devices.

Coolers, AIOs and Air Coolers: There are  main types of coolers, air and water. Air Coolers
transfer the heat through copper pipes and then to a radiator where the fans get rid of the heat
from the radiator. Water coolers use water that goes through tubes which pick up the heat and then go to a radiator where fans blow away the heat from the radiator fins. Water coolers are much more efficient and effective because of the thermal conductivity of water, but they're also more expensive.